fix(serverless): lambda rewrite (#17849)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/serverless-function-monitoring/aws-lambda-monitoring/instrument-lambda-function/cloud-watch-fallback.mdx

---
title: "CloudWatch fallback"
metaDescription: This doc guides you through shipping your telemetry data with Cloudwatch as a fail-safe option.
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

> You can ship New Relic Lambda monitoring data in a few different ways depending on your needs. The option that provides the strongest performance of your function and the strongest fail-safe is the CloudWatch fallback option. This means that you will ship telemetry to New Relic through the agent and use the extension to enhance the telemetry collection but, if there's a problem with the extension, you will still receive logs and payloads in CloudWatch.  

Author: Fail-safe.

> You can ship New Relic Lambda monitoring data in a few different ways depending on your needs. The option that provides the strongest performance of your function and the strongest fail-safe is the CloudWatch fallback option. This means that you will ship telemetry to New Relic through the agent and use the extension to enhance the telemetry collection but, if there's a problem with the extension, you will still receive logs and payloads in CloudWatch.  

Reviewer: The option that provides the strongest performance of your function and the strongest fail-safe includes configuring CloudWatch as a fallback. This means that you will ship telemetry to New Relic via the extension and, if there's a problem with the extension, New Relic will still receive payloads via CloudWatch.

Author: Thanks! I changed it to this (just to get rid of via):

The option that provides the strongest performance of your function and the strongest fail-safe includes configuring CloudWatch as a fallback. This means that you will ship telemetry to New Relic through the extension and, if there's a problem with the extension, New Relic will still receive payloads through CloudWatch.

Author: Done!

While this offers the strongest fail-safe, it's important to note that the AWS CloudWatch service can generate a lot of data. Keep data ingest in mind when thinking about costs and which New Relic pricing plan you choose. 

> 

Reviewer: How CloudWatch fallback works:

If the Extension fails to start up (noop mode) or crashes, it will fail to encode the `NR_LAMBDA_MONITORING` line generated by our agents, thus the `NR_LAMBDA_MONITORING` line will appear in CloudWatch logs. If the [aws-log-ingestion](https://github.com/newrelic/aws-log-ingestion) function is installed in the same region as your function, configured to ship payloads, and is triggered by your function's CloudWatch log group, then it can act as a fallback to the extension for shipping payloads.

Author: How about this:

For each scenario, if the Extension fails to start up, noop mode, or crashes, it will fail to encode the `NR_LAMBDA_MONITORING` line generated by our agents. The `NR_LAMBDA_MONITORING` line will appear in CloudWatch logs instead. If the `aws-log-ingestion` function is installed in the same region as your function, configured to ship payloads, and is triggered by your function's CloudWatch log group, then it can act as a fallback to the extension for shipping payloads.

Reviewer: This doesn't apply to each scenario, only the first two. The third has the extension disabled completely.

Author: I fixed this!

Reviewer 2: I don't know if I'd agree that logging to CloudWatch is a fallback as such. It's an alternative delivery mechanism for telemetry and logs. It *can be* a fallback, but I'd say that's a question for the use case the customer has in mind. 

Would it be possible to frame it in a more neutral way, and possibly explain why we do this the way we do? As an example, something like this:

In normal APM mode, New Relic agents connect to New Relic for configuration data, and then send telemetry and logs at regular intervals. Serverless mode is different, because serverless invocations often have very short durations--a few seconds, or under a second. So when they operate in serverless mode, our agents rely on some other process to send telemetry in logs. The alternatives are
* The New Relic Lambda Extension (brief explanation)
* The newrelic-log-ingestion Lambda function, triggered by a CloudWatch Log Subscription (brief explanation)

Benefits of the CloudWatch fallback:

* **Independent execution**: Captures all logs from CloudWatch independently of your function's execution. There's less chance it will interfere with the normal operation, or impact the invocation duration of your function.
* **Works with secured networks**: Useful for functions in a VPC that can't have outbound traffic to New Relic.

> * **Enables enhanced monitoring:  Needed for other forms of infra and database telemetry. To learn more, see our [Amazon RDS Enhanced Monitoring integration docmentation](/docs/infrastructure/amazon-integrations/aws-integrations-list/aws-rds-enhanced-monitoring-integration/).

Reviewer: Missing `**`

Author: Fixed

> 

Reviewer: Best practices:

* Prior to updating to a newer layer version, consider that the latest layer might introduce breaking changes in the Extension or a third party dependency.
* It’s a good idea to pin a layer version that is known to work well for your function, and only update to a newer layer version as needed to resolve bugs, obtain new features / security patches, or before an agent EOL.
* Carefully review all changes and release notes and test in a lower environment (dev, staging) before deploying a new layer to production.

Author: I edited it to this, does this work? 

Here are some best practices before updating your New Relic Lambda layer:

    * Before you update to a newer layer version, keep in mind that the latest layer might introduce changes that break the extension or a third party dependency.
    * Pin a layer version that is known to work well for your function and only update to a newer layer version as needed to resolve bugs, obtain new features and security patches, or because an agent has EOL'd.
    * Carefully review all changes and release notes and test in a developer or staging environment before deploying a new layer to production.

Reviewer: A developer environment is typically referred to as the dev environment.

Author: This has been changed!

## CloudWatch fallback [#fallback]

Even with those best practices in place, having a fallback can always be a good plan of action. There are three ways you can implement a CloudWatch fallback:

>     1. **Enable the extension enabled for payloads and disable the extension for logs**: In this scenario, if the extension fails, payloads will be sent through CloudWatch but CloudWatch will always send logs. 

Reviewer: The extension is either enabled or disabled, and we need to say something about CloudWatch. This scenario depends on logs and possibly payloads being sent through CloudWatch if the extension fails.
> Payloads via our extension with logs and payloads (fallback) via CloudWatch

Author: @keegoid-nr:

Should it be:

1. **Enable the extension for payloads and disable the extension for logs**: In this scenario, payloads are shipped through the extension and logs and payloads through CloudWatch in the event the extension fails.

Author: This has been fixed.

>     2. **Extension enabled for payloads and logs**: In this scenario, if the extension fails, CloudWatch will send payloads. 

Reviewer: > Payloads and logs via our extension with payloads (fallback) via CloudWatch

Author: @keegoid-nr should it be:

Should it be:

"In this scenario, payloads and logs are shipped through the extension and payloads through CloudWatch in the event the extension fails."

    3. **Extension disabled**: In this scenario, CloudWatch is always used to send logs and payloads.

## Before you begin  [#requirements]

Before you set up a fallback option you will need to complete the following:

>     * Install your function from the AWS region where you want to send logs from.

Reviewer: > * The aws-log-ingestion function needs to be installed per AWS region where you want to send logs from.
This is not the customer's function.

Author: Okay, what about this:

Install the `aws-log-ingestion` function from AWS region where you want to send your logs from.

>     * If sending logs, create a  filter pattern equal to null, or a custom pattern to match the function logs you want to send. CloudWatch logs for your function will be sent to New Relic. To avoid duplicate logs, the extension needs to have its log shipping disabled. The extension is disabled by default.

Reviewer: The extension's log shipping is disabled by default.

Author: fixed!

---
title: "CloudWatch fallback"
metaDescription: This doc guides you through shipping your telemetry data with Cloudwatch as a fail-safe option.
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

You can ship New Relic Lambda monitoring data in a few different ways depending on your needs. The option that provides the strongest performance of your function and the strongest fail-safe includes configuring CloudWatch as a fallback. This means that you will ship telemetry to New Relic through the extension and, if there's a problem with the extension, New Relic will still receive payloads through CloudWatch.

Benefits of the CloudWatch fallback:

> * **Independent execution**: Captures all logs from CloudWatch independently of your function's execution. There's less chance it will interfere with the normal operation, or impact the invocation duration of your function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Independent execution**: Captures all logs from CloudWatch independently of your function's execution. It is very unlikely to interfere with your function's normal operation, or impact the invocation duration of your function.
```

* **Works with secured networks**: Useful for functions in a VPC that can't have outbound traffic to New Relic.
* **Enables enhanced monitoring**:  Needed for other forms of infra and database telemetry. To learn more, see our [Amazon RDS Enhanced Monitoring integration docmentation](/docs/infrastructure/amazon-integrations/aws-integrations-list/aws-rds-enhanced-monitoring-integration/).

While this shipping option offers the strongest fail-safe, it's important to note that the AWS CloudWatch service can generate a lot of data. Keep data ingest in mind when thinking about costs and which New Relic pricing plan you choose. 

## Implementation options [#fallback]

There are three ways you can implement a CloudWatch fallback:

>     1. **Enable the extension for payloads and disable the extension for logs**: In this scenario, payloads are shipped through the extension and logs and payloads through CloudWatch in the event the extension fails.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. **Enable the extension for telemetry payloads and disable the extension for logs**: In this scenario, payloads are shipped through the extension and logs and payloads through CloudWatch in the event the extension fails.
```

>     2. **Extension enabled for payloads and logs**: In this scenario, payloads and logs are shipped through the extension and payloads through CloudWatch in the event the extension fails. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    2. **Extension enabled for telemetry payloads and logs**: In this scenario, telemetry payloads and logs are shipped through the extension. 
```

    3. **Extension disabled**: In this scenario, CloudWatch is always used to send logs and payloads.

If the Extension fails to start up, otherwise known as noop mode, or crashes, it will fail to encode the `NR_LAMBDA_MONITORING` line generated by our agents. The `NR_LAMBDA_MONITORING` line will appear in CloudWatch logs instead. If the `aws-log-ingestion` function is installed in the same region as your function, configured to ship payloads, and is triggered by your function's CloudWatch log group, then it can act as a fallback to the extension for shipping payloads.

## Before you begin  [#requirements]

Before you set up a fallback option you will need to complete the following:

>     * Install the `aws-log-ingestion` function from AWS region where you want to send your logs from.

Reviewer 2: While we call it `aws-log-ingestion` internally, and the repo on GitHub has that name, the function that gets installed in the user's account is named `newrelic-log-ingestion`. That may be confusing initially, but it does make sense, depending on the context (within NR, vs within AWS).

Author: Thanks @mrickard ! I have renamed this in the doc.

### Configuration [#configuration-one]

After you add a New Relic Lambda layer, the extension is enabled and has log shipping disabled by default.

1. Set [extension environment variables](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-lambda-extension/blob/main/config/config.go) on your function:

    * `NEW_RELIC_LAMBDA_EXTENSION_ENABLED`: true (default)
    * `NEW_RELIC_EXTENSION_SEND_FUNCTION_LOGS`: false (default)

2. Set your `aws-log-ingestion` function environment variables:

    * `INFRA_ENABLED`: true
    * `LOGGING_ENABLED`: true (if sending logs)

If you're using [`serverless-newrelic-lambda-layers`](https://github.com/newrelic/serverless-newrelic-lambda-layers), set:

    ```yaml
    custom:
        newRelic:
            enableExtension: true
            enableFunctionLogs: false
            enableIntegration: true
            cloudWatchFilter: "*"
    ```

If you're using the [`newrelic-lambda-cli`](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-lambda-cli), set:

>     * `newrelic-lambda integrations install --nr-account-id &lt;YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID> --nr-api-key &lt;YOUR_API_KEY> --enable-logs`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * `newrelic-lambda integrations install --nr-account-id <YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID> --nr-api-key <YOUR_API_KEY> --enable-logs`
```

>     * `newrelic-lambda layers install --function &lt;name or arn> --nr-account-id &lt;YOUR_NEW_RELIC_ACCOUNT_ID>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * `newrelic-lambda layers install --function <name or arn> --nr-account-id <YOUR_NEW_RELIC_ACCOUNT_ID>`
```

>     * `newrelic-lambda subscriptions install --function &lt;name or arn> --filter-pattern ""`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * `newrelic-lambda subscriptions install --function <name or arn> --filter-pattern ""`
```

## Payload fallback with optional extension logs [#two]

This option provides the lowest cost path that ensures instrumented payloads always make it to New Relic. This option ships function logs through the New Relic Lambda extension, so if the extension fails to start up or crashes, function logs will be missing from New Relic.

If you're sending function logs, make sure the extension is configured to do so. These logs will only be sent by the extension and there will not be a CloudWatch fallback for logs in order to avoid duplicates.

### Configuration [#configuration-two]

After adding a New Relic Lambda layer, the extension is enabled and has log shipping disabled by default. If you want to see function logs in New Relic, you'll need to enable extension sending of function logs with an environment variable.

> It's important to note that function logs are just that, logs that are recorded by the function during its invocation. The extension will not send Lambda runtime logs like `START`, `END`, and `REPORT` lines.

Reviewer 2: The contents of the REPORT line are platform metrics. The extension *sometimes* sends them, if the REPORT line has been written before the extension shuts down. (That happens...maybe 20% of the time, and it's not deterministic.) 

If a customer absolutely requires the platform metrics with every invocation, they should use the log-ingestion + CloudWatch log subscription method.

Author: Okay! Fixed this.

Set [extension environment variables](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-lambda-extension/blob/main/config/config.go) on your function:

    * `NEW_RELIC_LAMBDA_EXTENSION_ENABLED`: true (default)
    * `NEW_RELIC_EXTENSION_SEND_FUNCTION_LOGS`: true

Set your `aws-log-ingestion` function environment variables:

    * `INFRA_ENABLED`: true
    * `LOGGING_ENABLED`: false (disable log forwarding to avoid duplicates or set the CloudWatch subscription filter pattern to match `NR_LAMBDA_MONITORING` lines only)

If you're using [`serverless-newrelic-lambda-layers`](https://github.com/newrelic/serverless-newrelic-lambda-layers), set:

    ```yaml
    custom:
        newRelic:
            enableExtension: true
            enableFunctionLogs: true
            enableIntegration: true
            cloudWatchFilter: "NR_LAMBDA_MONITORING" (only send payloads)
    ```

If you're using the [`newrelic-lambda-cli`](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-lambda-cli), set: 

>     * `newrelic-lambda integrations install --nr-account-id &lt;YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID> --nr-api-key &lt;YOUR_API_KEY>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * `newrelic-lambda integrations install --nr-account-id <YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID> --nr-api-key <YOUR_API_KEY>`
```

Reviewer 2: The integration should be a one-time thing only: once your AWS account is integrated with New Relic, you don't need to create a new integration. All new functions in the account would be able to share it.

    * `newrelic-lambda layers install --function &lt;name or arn> --nr-account-id &lt;YOUR_NEW_RELIC_ACCOUNT_ID>`
    * `newrelic-lambda subscriptions install --function &lt;name or arn> --filter-pattern "NR_LAMBDA_MONITORING"`

## Always send logs and payloads via CloudWatch [#three]

This option relies completely on CloudWatch and our `aws-log-ingestion` function to ship logs and payloads to New Relic. This option has the extension disabled to avoid potential downtime caused by extension failures.

> For this method, the New Relic Lambda extension needs to be disabled completely to avoid encoding the `NR_LAMBDA_MONITORING` line. With the New Relic Lambda extension disabled, all telemetry will go out via CloudWatch + subscription filter + aws-log-ingestion function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this method, the New Relic Lambda extension needs to be disabled completely so that it does not prevent the `NR_LAMBDA_MONITORING` line from being written to CloudWatch. With the New Relic Lambda extension disabled, all telemetry will go out via CloudWatch + subscription filter + aws-log-ingestion function.
```

### Configuration [#configuration-3]

After adding a New Relic Lambda layer, the extension is enabled and has log shipping disabled by default. You'll need to disable the extension with an environment variable.

Set [extension environment variables](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-lambda-extension/blob/main/config/config.go) on your function as follows:

    * `NEW_RELIC_LAMBDA_EXTENSION_ENABLED`: false

Set your `aws-log-ingestion` function environment variables as follows:

    * `INFRA_ENABLED`: true
    * `LOGGING_ENABLED`: true

If you're using [`serverless-newrelic-lambda-layers`](https://github.com/newrelic/serverless-newrelic-lambda-layers), set:

    ```yaml
    custom:
    newRelic:
        enableExtension: false

>         enableIntegration: true

Reviewer 2: The integration option should only be included if the function is being deployed to an AWS account that does not yet have an integration. (Then, once the integration is set up, this option should be removed from the yaml of the deployed function.)

        cloudWatchFilter: "*"
    ```

If you're using the [`newrelic-lambda-cli`](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-lambda-cli), set: 

>     * `newrelic-lambda integrations install --nr-account-id &lt;YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID> --nr-api-key &lt;YOUR_API_KEY>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * `newrelic-lambda integrations install --nr-account-id <YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID> --nr-api-key <YOUR_API_KEY>`
```
And again, this should only be used once, on AWS accounts not yet integrated with NR.

>     * `newrelic-lambda layers install --function &lt;name or arn> --nr-account-id &lt;YOUR_NEW_RELIC_ACCOUNT_ID> --disable-extension`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * `newrelic-lambda layers install --function <name or arn> --nr-account-id <YOUR_NEW_RELIC_ACCOUNT_ID> --disable-extension`
```

* **Enables enhanced monitoring**:  Needed for other forms of infra and database telemetry. To learn more, see our [Amazon RDS Enhanced Monitoring integration docmentation](/docs/infrastructure/amazon-integrations/aws-integrations-list/aws-rds-enhanced-monitoring-integration/).

While this shipping option offers the strongest fail-safe, it's important to note that the AWS CloudWatch service can generate a lot of data. Keep data ingest in mind when thinking about costs and which New Relic pricing plan you choose. 

## Implementation options [#fallback]

There are three ways you can implement a CloudWatch fallback:

    1. **Enable the extension for payloads and disable the extension for logs**: In this scenario, payloads are shipped through the extension and logs and payloads through CloudWatch in the event the extension fails.
    2. **Extension enabled for payloads and logs**: In this scenario, payloads and logs are shipped through the extension and payloads through CloudWatch in the event the extension fails. 
    3. **Extension disabled**: In this scenario, CloudWatch is always used to send logs and payloads.

> For each scenario, if the Extension fails to start up, otherwise known as noop mode, or crashes, it will fail to encode the `NR_LAMBDA_MONITORING` line generated by our agents. The `NR_LAMBDA_MONITORING` line will appear in CloudWatch logs instead. If the `aws-log-ingestion` function is installed in the same region as your function, configured to ship payloads, and is triggered by your function's CloudWatch log group, then it can act as a fallback to the extension for shipping payloads.

Author: thanks! this has been fixed!

## Payload fallback with optional CloudWatch logs [#one]

If you don't send logs to CloudWatch, this option is the least expensive and most robust way to ensure that instrumented payloads always make it to New Relic. If you're sending logs, this option will introduce some CloudWatch costs for log shipment. See [Data ingest: Billing and rules](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/new-relic-one-pricing-billing/data-ingest-billing/) for more info about pricing.

### Configuration [#configuration-one]

After adding a New Relic Lambda layer, the extension is enabled and has log shipping disabled by default.

1. Set [extension environment variables](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-lambda-extension/blob/main/config/config.go) on your function:

    * `NEW_RELIC_LAMBDA_EXTENSION_ENABLED`: true (default)
    * `NEW_RELIC_EXTENSION_SEND_FUNCTION_LOGS`: false (default)

2. Set your `aws-log-ingestion` function environment variables:

    * `INFRA_ENABLED`: true
    * `LOGGING_ENABLED`: true (if sending logs)

If you're using [`serverless-newrelic-lambda-layers`](https://github.com/newrelic/serverless-newrelic-lambda-layers), set:

    ```yaml
    custom:

>         newRelic:

Reviewer 2: @rhetoric101 The New Relic plugin for Serverless (a framework used to deploy Lambda functions) has its own terse internal shorthand that expands to the normal NR environment variables. We wouldn't want to change them at this point, unless it was a breaking change for the plugin version.

>         newRelic:

Author: thanks @mrickard !

            enableExtension: true
            enableFunctionLogs: false
            enableIntegration: true
            cloudWatchFilter: "*"
    ```

If you're using the [`newrelic-lambda-cli`](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-lambda-cli), set:

* `newrelic-lambda integrations install --nr-account-id &lt;YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID> --nr-api-key &lt;YOUR_API_KEY> --enable-logs`
* `newrelic-lambda layers install --function &lt;name or arn> --nr-account-id &lt;YOUR_NEW_RELIC_ACCOUNT_ID>`
* `newrelic-lambda subscriptions install --function &lt;name or arn> --filter-pattern ""`

## Payload fallback with optional extension logs [#two]

> This option provides the lowest cost path that ensures instrumented payloads always make it to New Relic. This option ships function logs through the New Relic Lambda extension, so if the extension fails to start up or crashes, function logs will be missing from New Relic.

Reviewer 2: @homelessbirds If the extension fails to start, there isn't an automatic mechanism for switching over to the log ingestion Lambda function + CW Log subscription. There's some manual work needed from the customer's end to switch over...though they could use the Lambda CLI to enable the subscription/ingestion.

> This option provides the lowest cost path that ensures instrumented payloads always make it to New Relic. This option ships function logs through the New Relic Lambda extension, so if the extension fails to start up or crashes, function logs will be missing from New Relic.

Author: There's actually a small difference between the lowest cost statements. I tried to make it more clear. Thanks @rhetoric101 . And thanks @mrickard !

It's important to note that function logs are just that, logs that are recorded by the function during its invocation. The extension will not send Lambda runtime logs like `START`, `END`, and `REPORT` lines.

Set [extension environment variables](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-lambda-extension/blob/main/config/config.go) on your function:

    * `NEW_RELIC_LAMBDA_EXTENSION_ENABLED`: true (default)
    * `NEW_RELIC_EXTENSION_SEND_FUNCTION_LOGS`: true

Set your `aws-log-ingestion` function environment variables:

* `INFRA_ENABLED`: true
* `LOGGING_ENABLED`: false (disable log forwarding to avoid duplicates or set the CloudWatch subscription filter pattern to match `NR_LAMBDA_MONITORING` lines only)

If you're using [`serverless-newrelic-lambda-layers`](https://github.com/newrelic/serverless-newrelic-lambda-layers), set:

    ```yaml
    custom:
        newRelic:
            enableExtension: true
            enableFunctionLogs: true
            enableIntegration: true
            cloudWatchFilter: "NR_LAMBDA_MONITORING" (only send payloads)
    ```

> If you're using the [`newrelic-lambda-cli`](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-lambda-cli), set: 

Author: thanks! this has been fixed!
